They pick up in the library during the short rest. Davinia has just arrived to falkreath with danica, they encounter nenya who is even more exhausted now, sees they are adventurers and tells the 2 of them the rest of the party is in the grave yard and shed appreciate it if they could hurry this up a bit. So the 2 go to the graveyard where they find saijah who is excited to see them! Saijah was outside the hall of the dead when they found her so the 3 now enter the tomb, seeing all the rooms the rest of the party has already been through, interestingly for us readers the cages in the parlor where the townsfolk were earlier are now all completely empty. They work their way through the piles of ash and desiccated partly ice corpses of the death hounds until they reach the library. The party reunites and catches davinia and danica up on what theyve done and all the evidence theyve gathered and catch saijah up on the things that have happened while she was out standing guard. As they each work through their personal stories alfonso is the first to notice. Ja’ha and seraleth are gone.. The stench of decay lingers where they were but the party has no idea where they have vanished to. (they wandered off as a result of the miasma and being more susceptible to the vampires influence now that they are infected. Being pulled down a different corridor in the library to some unknown chamber for a side adventure) after catching up and wondering about everything they continue on deeper into the tomb. Wandering down a corridor at the far end of the library until they find themselves in some sort of sterile alchemical chamber, its a large room with all sorts of instruments and tools and scrolls spread about the location as well as a large chandelier illuminating the entire room. The 4 kidnapped townsfolk are there lying on some medical cots with large glass tubes inserted into their necks and arms, a strange viscous, chunky, red fluid with glowing viens flows from their bodies into 4 large crystal reservoirs. They studdied them closely for a while davinia finally approaching one and calling over danica asking her to be ready to heal, then she yanked the tubes out of the blacksmiths apprentice. The process was scary, danica closed up the wounds but the feed back from the machine was extremely damaging, davinia notices how scared danica actually is, this is a civilian, a priestess, who she has brought into a vampires lair. Davinia goes to comfort her. Lod can never be a blacksmith again. His body is frail and unable to work physical labor now. He will live his life with 1 hp forever. Orion sees this and is concerned he thinks wait what if we freeze the containers again and the fluid inside to stop it from flowing before we disconnect them and it works! He manages to get one free just in time for 4 death hounds to appear in the room barking and growling angrily. Kyboh moves to the first immediately smacking it hard kiling it instantly then saijah moved shooting her bow only for the arrow to bounce right off the beasts hide. Shes horrified and moves to become hidden climbing up onto a bookshelf so the hounds can't reach her as easily. The hounds move the one kyboh next to the corpse kyboh just made bites him hard latching onto his arm then lets out his frost breath doing no damage because kyboh has the ice armor from the pale ladys tomb the other 2 move to attack davinia doing signifigant damage tearing at her with teeth and icy breath. Then orion moves using his powerful magic to blast the 2 of them closest to saijah with lightning stunning them and reducing their total fp. Then davinia tries fighting off the 2 attacking her managing only to break free for a moment to get some space while danica tries desperatly to heal her alfonso conjures a firebolt and attacks the one closest to davinia before moving to hide behind her. Kyboh goes to strike the one in front of him but the hound manages to doge him at the last second. Saijah shoots at the one attacking kyboh aiming at its hardened ice protrusions which were protecting it. The hound rengages kyboh attacking with its furious bite and ice breath again. The 2 closest to davinia try again to attack her one splits off to go for saijah while the other attacks davinia the one going for saijah can't reach her so tries frost breath the one going for davinia bites hard. Danica still just trying to keep herself and the others alive tries a move in desperation and goes for a sunbeam, deleting the hound attacking davinia, alfonso moves once again to be behind davinia and hits the closest one to her with powerful fire magic killing it instantly. 2 remain. Kyboh uses the opening saijah created to completely obliterate the death hound in front of him. As saijah lines up her next shot on the last remaining death hound, it dodges the shot and goes to attack her. Just then an argonian wearing hist armor drops down from the high ceiling, this one is different than the last but clearly a bloodknight, a former housecarl and very strong he looks at the party for a moment intimidatingly. Orion blows his warhorn and braces for impact, empowering the entire party. Davinia throws her mace at the vampire hard, he effortlessly dodges it as danica cast circle of protection so the vampire can not get to close. Alfonso casts incinerate doing substantial damage to the vampire. It snarls kyboh and saijah finish off the death hound just in time for the vampire to swing at kyboh hard, he dodges just barely and then the vampire vanishes from sight in a flash, its so quick they werent able to track it, luckily Alfonso had gotten that Boone from namira earlier during the short rest in the library and was able to smell the state of things so he could smell all of the living people in his party around him and the stench of Decay and rot on the vampire so despite it being invisible he was able to determine that had moved behind them and into a position near all of the beds and the two remaining towns people. He shouts where the vampire has gone and orion spins around blowing his warhorn again to empower everyone while trying to shield them behind himself and bracing with his shield. Davinia walks up to danica says its going to be okay and locks eyes with her. Danica powers up her sunbeam in one hand while davinia powers up an ash shell in her hand. The two are holding hands locked on ot each other it is an epic scene of romance as they fire the beam of sun and ash right into the argonian vampire. He is blasted anime style by the sun while his body is turned to stone then he explodes into ashen confetti. Davinia and danica are falling in love just staring at each other as the guardian circle drops and beautiful leaves of gold fall around them. Danica has never been more smitten in her life as davinia without breaking her gaze recalls her thrown mace with telekenisis. With the vampire slain orion casts his ice magic again freezing the remaining reservoirs and freeing the last 2 prisoners. Once the rest of the party are able to get the lovebirds attention they review everything they know so far going over all the evidence the books to figure out what they know about the vampire they are certainly about to face. After deliberation they enter the room and he gives his speech to them, saijah notices that the large painting of his family was made by and maintained by him. Alfonso and orion talk some good shit trying to get in the vampires head. Kyboh says some stuff that upsets him and combat begins. They mentioned his family so the vampire is enraged and looses his fist major action. Davinia and danica moved first still feeling the flow from their last victory. Davinia casting ebony flesh to prepare for the fight while danica casts circle of protection again. The vampire is furious shaking with rage he does not take a major action instead activating mist form the party doesn't yet know hes intangible. Saijah unleashes an arrow and it passes through harmlessly. Alfonos casts ironflesh to prepare for the fight and positions himself behind davinia again. Kyboh launches a bolt of chain lightning with his enchanted sword saijah notices that the bolt itself went right through despite the magic doing some fp damage. She announces that the beast is intangible! Orion once again blows his war horn then braces. Daviniah and danica cast even more defense danice using up 10 charges of her staff to cast an incredibly powerful ward. The vampire, valerius has regained his composure. He has been watching them, they are smart. They are cohesive, they are a team, forged by the fires of shared adventure. He sees this he knows they are a flawless machine of cohesion. So he decides to throw a wrench in the gears. He locks eyes with kyboh for just a moment just a fleeting second. And in that moment kybohs will is dominated. Kyboh fought hard he tried to refuse and while he managed to lockhimself in place focusing on keeping his legs from moving or walking against his will, he was too distracted too focused on his lower half to realize he was already moving to strike. To hit davinia. By the time he realised it was too late. Kyboh used his ultimate attack to hit davina as hard as he could as hard as hed hit that monster all the way back in thornheart grove. With the force of a thunderclap he sent davinia flying into the far wall she crashed into it leaving a crater. This was more than enough damage to kill her. This was enough damage to kill almost anything in skyrim this is what kyboh had worked so hard to build to forge himself into the perfect weapon and now it was turned against his closest friend. He could not tell if davinia survived. None of the party could. 
She was alive but barely. The slightest hit might be enough to kill her. But she was not gone yet.







THE PRESERVATION
THE REUNION
The library was quiet except for the sound of breathing. The party had claimed a corner among the shelves, as far from the ash piles as they could manage. Kyboah sat with his back against a bookcase, flexing his clawed hands. Alfonso had produced rations from his pack and was eating methodically. Orion was checking his shield for damage.
The fight with the Blood-Knight had taken everything they had.
"We need to keep moving," Kyboah said after a while. "Whoever's in charge knows we're here now."
"Give it a few more minutes," Orion replied. "We're no good to anyone if we collapse halfway through the next fight."
Alfonso nodded, chewing thoughtfully. Then he paused, his eyes scanning the library. His head tilted slightly.
"Where did they go?" he asked.
The others looked up. The space where Ja'ha and Seraleth had been resting was empty. Not just empty—there was a faint smell in the air. Decay. Old and wrong.
"Ja'ha?" Kyboah called out, standing. "Seraleth?"
Silence answered him, his voice echoing among the shelves.
They spread out, searching the library. The space where the two women had been resting was empty. A faint smell hung in the air—decay, old and wrong—but the women themselves had vanished completely.
"Where could they have gone?" Orion asked, scanning the shadowed corners of the library.
Kyboah shook his head. "No idea. This place has corridors we haven't explored, but..." He gestured at the empty space. "They just disappeared."
"The infection," Alfonso said quietly. "Combined with the miasma in this place. Vampiric influence. They probably didn't even realize they were walking away."
"Should we search for them?" Orion asked.
Kyboah looked at the dark corridor, then at the path deeper into the tomb. "We don't know what's down there. Could be a trap. Could be—"
Footsteps echoed from the direction of the entrance. Multiple sets, moving quickly.
The party turned, weapons ready, only to see three familiar figures emerge from the shadows.
Saijah came first, bow in hand, moving with the fluid grace of someone who'd spent hours standing watch. Behind her came Davinia, her Imperial armor catching the dim light. And beside Davinia walked a woman in the robes of a Kynareth priestess—blonde hair, green eyes, carrying a staff carved with symbols of nature and healing.
"Danica," Kyboah said, recognition dawning. "You made it."
Davinia's expression was all business. "We encountered Nenya in town. She looked like she hadn't slept in days. Told us you were here and to hurry."
Saijah grinned. "Found them at the graveyard. Figured you could use the backup."
"How bad is it out there?" Orion asked.
"Empty cages in the first room," Davinia said, her voice tight. "Saw the ash piles. The hounds." Her eyes swept the library, taking in the carnage. "You've been busy."
They gathered together, and the story spilled out. Kyboah explained the investigation, the evidence they'd found, the vampires they'd fought. Alfonso detailed Valerius's journal, the family portrait, the psychological profile. Orion showed them the book on Cyrodiilic vampire weaknesses.
Saijah listened intently, absorbing everything she'd missed while standing guard outside.
Danica's face grew paler with each revelation. She was a healer, a priestess. Vampire hunting was beyond anything she'd trained for. But she stood her ground, gripping her staff tighter.
"The people in the cages," Davinia said. "Where are they now?"
"That's what we need to find out," Kyboah replied. "There's more to this place. Deeper chambers."
"And Ja'ha?" Saijah asked, noticing the old Khajiit's absence. "Seraleth?"
The party exchanged glances.
"Gone," Alfonso said simply. "They wandered off during the rest. We don't know where."
Davinia's eyes narrowed. "Wandered off? In a vampire's lair?"
"They were bitten," Kyboah said quietly. "During the fights. They died and came back. Said they were thirsty."
Understanding dawned on Davinia's face. "They're infected."
"Stage one," Alfonso confirmed. "The fever. Makes you susceptible to vampiric influence. The miasma in this place, combined with their condition..." He gestured vaguely. "They probably didn't even realize they were walking away."
Saijah's hand went to her bow. "We need to find them."
"After we finish this," Kyboah said firmly. "Whoever's running this place is still down there. And those four people—Kust, Hert, the Salvians—they're still here somewhere. We end this first, then we find Ja'ha and Seraleth."
Davinia nodded. "Agreed. Lead the way."
THE PRESERVATORY
The corridor beyond the library opened into a chamber that made them all stop short.
It was sterile. Clinical. Like a healer's workshop, but wrong in every way that mattered. The air smelled of copper and something chemical, sharp and unpleasant.
Four people lay on stone slabs in the center of the room. Kust, the blacksmith's apprentice. Hert, the lumberjack. The elderly Salvian couple. All of them pale, barely breathing, with intricate glass tubes running from their arms and necks to four massive crystal reservoirs mounted on the walls.
The reservoirs were three-quarters full of a dark, viscous liquid that pulsed with a faint red glow. The entire apparatus hummed with a low, rhythmic sound like a heartbeat.
"Gods," Danica whispered.
On a side table, personal effects were arranged with care. Kust's leather apron. Hert's wood-carving tools. The Salvians' jewelry. Displayed like artifacts in a museum.
Alfonso moved closer to examine the apparatus, his hands hovering over the magical construct. "Alteration and Necromancy. Masterwork level. He's transforming them. Slowly. Into something between life and death."
"Living thralls," Davinia said, her voice cold with anger. "Slaves who keep their skills but lose their free will."
"Can we stop it?" Orion asked.
Alfonso studied the machinery. "If we disconnect them, the feedback could kill them. If we don't, the process completes and they're lost anyway."
Davinia looked at the four unconscious prisoners, then at Danica. "Can you heal them? If we pull them out?"
Danica's hands trembled slightly on her staff. "I... I can try. But this is advanced magic. Necromancy. I'm a priestess, not a—"
"I know," Davinia said gently. "But you're what we have. And they need you."
Danica nodded, steeling herself.
Davinia approached Kust's slab. She studied the tubes for a moment, then looked back at Danica. "Be ready."
"Wait—" Alfonso started.
Davinia grabbed the tubes and yanked them out.
Kust's body convulsed. Blood poured from the puncture wounds. The reservoir shattered, dark fluid spraying across the floor. The entire apparatus shrieked, magical feedback lashing out in visible waves.
Danica was already moving, her hands glowing with golden light. The wounds closed under her touch, but slowly, far slower than normal healing magic. Kust stopped convulsing, his breathing stabilizing.
But he didn't wake up.
Davinia knelt beside him, checking his pulse. It was there, but weak. So weak. She looked at his hands—the calluses from working the forge, the strength in his fingers. All of it fading. His body was frail now, wasted, like someone who'd been bedridden for months.
"He's alive," she said quietly. "But he'll never work a forge again. His body..." She trailed off, seeing Danica's stricken expression.
The young priestess looked horrified. "I didn't— The magic, it fought back. I couldn't—"
"You saved his life," Davinia said firmly. She stood and moved closer to Danica, placing a hand on her shoulder. "This isn't a temple. This is a vampire's lair. You're not supposed to be here. But you are, and you're doing everything you can. That's enough."
Danica looked up at her, and something passed between them. Understanding. Recognition.
Orion had been studying the apparatus while they worked. "What if we froze the reservoirs first? Stop the flow before disconnecting?"
Alfonso considered this. "Ice magic on the containers themselves... it might work. The fluid would solidify."
"Let me try," Orion said. He moved to the next slab—one of the Salvian couple—and raised his hands. Frost spread from his fingers, coating the reservoir. The dark liquid inside began to crystallize, the red glow fading.
When the entire reservoir was frozen solid, Orion carefully removed the tubes.
No shriek. No feedback. The elderly man lay still, unconscious but stable.
"It worked," Danica breathed.
"Two down," Kyboah said. "Let's get the others."
They were working on the third prisoner when the doors burst open.
THE HOUNDS
Four death hounds charged into the chamber, their eyes glowing with cold light, frost trailing from their jaws. They moved with coordinated precision, spreading out to flank the party.
Kyboah was the closest. The first hound came straight at him, and he met it head-on with a devastating punch that caved in its skull. The creature dropped instantly, dead before it hit the ground.
"One down!" Kyboah called out.
Saijah had already drawn her bow. She loosed an arrow at the second hound, aiming for center mass.
The arrow bounced off its hide with a metallic ring.
"What—" Saijah stared at her bow in disbelief. The creature's body was covered in ice protrusions, hardened frost forming natural armor. Her arrow had done nothing.
The hounds kept coming. The one Kyboah had killed lay near a second hound, which lunged at the Khajiit. Its jaws closed around his arm, frost breath washing over him.
Kyboah barely felt it. The ice armor from the Pale Lady's tomb—the enchantment still active—absorbed the cold completely. He looked down at the hound still latched onto his arm.
"Really?" he said.
The other two hounds ignored the fighters and went straight for Davinia. She'd been standing near the prisoners, and now she was their target. Both creatures attacked at once, teeth tearing at her armor, frost breath chilling her to the bone.
Davinia stumbled back, bleeding, frost spreading across her robes.
Saijah saw her chance. If the hounds had ice armor, she needed height. She holstered her bow and started climbing, scaling the preserved equipment and shelving until she was well above the ground. The hounds couldn't reach her there.
"Get off me," Kyboah growled, trying to shake the hound loose. It held on, worrying at his arm like a dog with a bone.
Orion raised his hands and called lightning. The spell crackled through the air, striking the two hounds attacking Davinia. Both creatures seized up, electricity arcing across their bodies. Their eyes dimmed, their movements slowed—focus pool damage, making it harder for them to use their breath attacks.
Danica was already casting, her hands glowing with golden light as she tried desperately to keep Davinia alive. The healing magic flowed, closing wounds, pushing back the frost damage.
Davinia broke free from the hounds for a moment, creating space. Alfonso saw his opening and conjured a firebolt, the magical flame streaking across the chamber to strike the nearest hound. The creature yelped, its ice armor hissing and melting.
"Get behind me," Davinia called to Alfonso.
The mage didn't need to be told twice. He moved to stand directly behind the Imperial, using her as cover.
Kyboah finally managed to land a solid hit on the hound attached to his arm. His fist connected with its skull, and the creature went limp, releasing him. It collapsed, dead.
From her vantage point above, Saijah took aim. The hound attacking Kyboah had ice protrusions protecting its body, but those same protrusions created weak points. She aimed for the gaps between them and loosed.
The arrow found its mark, sinking deep. The hound yelped but didn't drop.
It turned its attention back to Kyboah, lunging again with its icy bite and following up with another blast of frost breath. The cold washed over Kyboah harmlessly.
The two hounds near Davinia split their attention. One tried to reach Saijah, but she was too high up. It settled for breathing frost at her instead. The cold air reached her, but the damage was minimal from this range. The other hound went for Davinia again, jaws snapping.
Danica, desperate and terrified, tried something she'd only practiced in the safety of the temple. She raised her free hand, and golden light exploded from her palm. Sunbeam.
The hound attacking Davinia was caught in the full force of divine radiance. It didn't yelp. It didn't scream. It simply ceased to exist, dissolving into ash and steam.
"Three down!" Orion shouted.
Alfonso, still hiding behind Davinia, launched another spell. Fire magic engulfed the hound trying to reach Saijah. The creature's ice armor melted, its fur caught flame, and it collapsed, burning.
Two left.
Kyboah moved on the hound Saijah had wounded, his fists glowing with the enchantments from his gloves. He struck once, twice, three times in rapid succession. The creature's ice armor shattered, then its skull. It dropped.
Saijah lined up her shot on the last remaining hound. The arrow flew true, but the creature dodged at the last second, moving faster than it should have been able to. It turned and charged at her position, trying to reach the shelving she'd climbed.
Then the ceiling moved.
An Argonian dropped from above, landing in a crouch between the hound and Saijah's position. He wore hist armor—the traditional scaled armor of the Argonian people—and carried a blood-drinker's longsword. His eyes glowed with the cold light of undeath.
Another Blood-Knight. Smaller than the last one, less armored, but clearly just as dangerous.
He looked at each of them for a long moment, his gaze calculating and cold. Then he bared his fangs.
Orion was already moving. He put his war horn to his lips and blew, the sound echoing through the chamber. Immediately, the party felt stronger, faster, more coordinated. The buff washed over them like a wave of confidence.
Orion braced behind his shield, ready for the vampire's charge.
Davinia had her mace in hand. She wound up and threw it with all her strength, the weapon spinning through the air toward the Blood-Knight's head.
He dodged it effortlessly, barely seeming to move. The mace clattered against the far wall.
Danica cast a spell, her voice steady despite her fear. A circle of golden light spread across the floor around the party. Circle of Protection. The vampire would not be able to get close without forcing his way through divine magic.
Alfonso's turn. His hands moved in precise patterns. "Incinerate."
Fire erupted from his palms, white-hot and consuming. The vampire tried to dodge, but the cone of flame was too wide. It caught him full-on, and he snarled as his armor began to smoke.
Kyboah and Saijah turned their attention back to the last death hound. Kyboah struck it once, stunning it, and Saijah's arrow followed a heartbeat later. The hound dropped, finally dead.
All the hounds were down. Now there was just the vampire.
The Blood-Knight looked at them with new respect. They'd killed his pack in seconds. He was wounded, burning from Alfonso's spell, and they were prepared.
He swung at Kyboah, his blood-drinker's sword moving with supernatural speed. Kyboah twisted away, the blade missing him by inches.
Then the vampire vanished.
One moment he was there, the next he was simply gone. Not invisible—gone. He'd moved so fast they couldn't track it, repositioning to somewhere else in the chamber.
Alfonso's nose twitched. The gift Namira had given him during the rest in the library—the ability to smell the state of living and dead things—had been subtle before, but now it was clear as day. He could smell his companions, each one distinct. And he could smell the vampire: decay and rot and old blood.
"Behind us!" Alfonso shouted. "Near the prisoners!"
Orion spun, raising his shield and blowing his war horn again. The party's coordination sharpened further, everyone moving in sync.
Davinia stepped up to Danica. Their eyes met.
"It's going to be okay," Davinia said quietly.
Danica nodded. She raised one hand, golden light gathering in her palm. Sunbeam, but stronger this time, powered by her staff. She poured ten charges into it, the divine radiance building to a blinding intensity.
Davinia raised her other hand. Ash shell, the spell forming in a swirl of grey and white. She reached out and took Danica's free hand, their fingers intertwining.
They stood there for a moment, connected, power flowing between them. Davinia's controlled arcane might and Danica's pure divine fury, merging into something greater than either spell alone.
Then they released it together.
The beam of golden sunlight and grey ash lance struck the vampire with the force of a battering ram. He screamed as the divine magic burned his undead flesh, and even as he burned, the ash shell spread across his body, turning his flesh to stone.
The combination was devastating. The vampire tried to resist, tried to move, but the ash had already hardened around him. The sunlight continued to burn, eating through the stone, and then with a sound like shattering glass, he exploded.
Ashen confetti filled the air, glittering as it fell. The circle of protection faded, and golden leaves materialized from nowhere, drifting down around Davinia and Danica like a blessing from Kynareth herself.
They stood there, hands still clasped, staring at each other. Davinia had never broken her gaze. Danica looked at her like she was seeing the sun for the first time.
The moment stretched.
Orion cleared his throat.
Davinia blinked, realized she was still holding Danica's hand, and let go. She raised her other hand, and across the room, her thrown mace flew back to her grip, pulled by telekinesis. She caught it without looking, still watching Danica.
"We should keep moving," Kyboah said, though his tone was carefully neutral.
Davinia nodded slowly. "Right. The prisoners."
Orion moved to the remaining two slabs and froze their reservoirs, then carefully disconnected them. All four prisoners lay unconscious but stable. Kust was damaged beyond repair, his body frail and weak, but he was alive. The others would fare better, though none of them woke.
"We can't carry them out," Saijah said. "Not while fighting."
"We finish this first," Kyboah agreed. "End Valerius, then come back for them."
They gathered around the evidence they'd collected—the journal, the psychological texts, the work orders. They reviewed everything they knew about the vampire they were about to face. His weakness to reminders of his lost family. The compulsion magic he used. His view of people as resources to be preserved.
When they were ready, they moved to the final door.
THE MASTER'S CRYPT
The chamber beyond was a monument to loss.
The ornate stone coffin at the center was carved with the coat of arms of an ancient Cyrodiilic noble house. But it was the painting that dominated the space—covering nearly the entire far wall, massive and exquisitely detailed.
A family. A man, a woman, a child. All three radiating happiness, sitting in a garden under a clear sky. The work of a master painter, maintained with obsessive care for over two centuries.
Standing before it was Valerius Caelus himself.
He was tall, elegant, dressed in fine clothes that belonged in the Imperial City. His dark hair was perfectly styled, his pale hands manicured. When he turned to face them, his eyes held sadness and intelligence in equal measure.
"So," he said, his voice cultured and calm. "The bloodhounds have finally followed the scent to its source."
He studied each of them in turn. "Tell me, how much is Maven Black-Briar paying you for this? Ah, you think I don't know? I make it my business to know about anyone who might interfere with my work." His gaze lingered on Davinia. "You chose to work for a criminal who destroys lives for profit, who poisons wells and murders competitors. I am an artist; she is a butcher. Tell me again who the monsters are."
Saijah stepped forward. "Your painting," she said, her eyes on the massive portrait. "You made this. You've maintained it for two ages."
Valerius's expression shifted—surprise, then something softer. "You recognize the technique. Yes. It's mine. All of this—" he gestured at the chamber, "—is mine. My work. My preservation. My family."
"Your family is dead," Alfonso said flatly. "You lost them. You didn't preserve them."
"I preserve their memory," Valerius snapped. "I preserve what they valued. Skill. Talent. Beauty. Everything that mortality wastes."
Orion spoke up, his voice hard. "We've seen your 'preservation.' Livestock cages for people. Work orders that call them 'specimens' and 'resources.' You don't see people at all. You see tools."
"I see potential," Valerius said. "I see talent that would otherwise rot in the ground, forgotten. I offer them eternity—"
"You offer them slavery," Kyboah interrupted. "We read your journal. We know about the apparatus, about the thralls. You're not saving anyone. You're creating corpse-puppets."
Valerius's composure cracked. "You understand nothing! The common folk waste their lives in drudgery and then die! I give them purpose! I give them—"
"Nothing your family would recognize," Davinia said quietly. Her words cut through his rage like a knife. "Livia and Marcus. Your wife and child. The people in that painting." She pointed at the portrait. "Do you think they would recognize the monster wearing their husband and father's face?"
Valerius froze.
"You didn't preserve them," Davinia continued, her voice gentle but relentless. "You lost them. To plague, to death, to time. And now you're trying to fill that void with slaves. But they're not your family. They're not even people to you anymore. You lost your family the day you made your deal with Molag Bal."
Valerius's hands trembled. He looked at the painting, at the faces of his lost wife and child, and something broke inside him. His carefully constructed justifications, his philosophical armor—all of it shattered.
He stood there, shaking, unable to speak. His first major action was lost to grief and rage and the terrible recognition of what he'd become.
Combat had begun.
THE BATTLE
Davinia moved first, her hands already weaving patterns in the air. "Ebony flesh," she said, and her skin took on a metallic sheen, hardening like armor.
Danica was right beside her, already casting. Another circle of protection spread across the floor, golden light forming a barrier around the party.
Valerius recovered, his face contorting with fury. He wasn't attacking yet. Instead, he began to transform, his body becoming insubstantial, turning to mist. Mist form—a vampiric ability that would make him immune to physical attacks.
The party didn't know this yet.
Saijah drew and fired in one smooth motion. Her arrow flew true, aimed at his heart.
It passed through him harmlessly, the shaft clattering against the coffin behind him.
"What—" Saijah started.
Alfonso cast iron flesh, his own skin hardening. He moved to stand behind Davinia, using her as cover once again.
Kyboah raised his enchanted sword and unleashed a bolt of chain lightning. The electricity arced through the air, striking Valerius's misty form. The vampire flinched—the magical energy damaged his focus pool—but the lightning itself passed through without harming his body.
"He's intangible!" Saijah called out, understanding dawning. "Magic can hurt him, but not physical attacks!"
Orion raised his war horn and blew, empowering the party once more. Then he braced behind his shield, ready for whatever came next.
Davinia and Danica cast more defensive spells. Davinia adding layers of magical protection. Danica, seeing the fight was about to get worse, gripped her staff and channeled ten charges into a massive ward. A dome of golden light formed around the party, shimmering with divine power.
Valerius had been watching them. Calculating. They were prepared. They were coordinated. They moved like a single organism, each member supporting the others. He'd seen adventuring parties before—most fell apart under pressure, each person trying to survive alone.
Not these ones. These were forged by shared struggle. A flawless machine of cooperation.
So he would throw a wrench into the gears.
His eyes locked onto Kyboah. Just for a moment. Just a fleeting second of eye contact.
And in that moment, Kyboah's will was dominated.
The Khajiit fought. He fought hard. His mind screamed resistance, his hands gripped his sword until his knuckles went white. He focused everything he had on keeping his legs locked in place, refusing to walk, refusing to move toward his friends.
He succeeded. His legs didn't move.
But while he was focused on his lower body, his upper body was already in motion. His arms moved without his permission, raising his sword, activating every enchantment he'd built into it—ice, lightning, fire, all of them flaring to life at once.
He was moving to strike Davinia.
By the time he realized it, it was too late.
Kyboah's ultimate attack—the technique he'd perfected over countless battles, the strike that had felled the corrupted Heart-Keeper in Thornheart Grove—connected with Davinia's back with the force of a thunderclap.
The impact was catastrophic. All the elemental fury he'd channeled, all his strength, all his skill, focused into a single devastating blow.
Davinia's feet left the ground. She flew across the chamber like a stone from a catapult and crashed into the far wall. The stone cracked, cratered, and she fell into the depression her body had created.
She didn't move.
The chamber fell silent except for the sound of settling dust.
Kyboah stood frozen, his sword still raised, horror dawning on his face as he realized what he'd done. What he'd been made to do.
That was enough damage to kill almost anything in Skyrim. That was the attack he'd used to slay monsters, to end vampires, to protect his friends.
And he'd just used it on Davinia.
From across the chamber, slumped in the crater in the wall, Davinia's hand twitched.
She was alive. Barely. The slightest hit might finish her now.
But she wasn't gone yet.

